Hello and welcome to the advanced course
in Tableau. I'm super excited that you
decided to join. A lot of students who
had completed my basic course on Tableau,
later got in touch to tell me about
their successes and how that course had
helped them get a job or promotion or
pass an interview or an exam and that is
simply amazing.
It is incredibly rewarding to know that
through these courses I can help you
with your careers and that is also the
reason why I have developed this
advanced class. Here we'll be coming off a
few additional topics and we'll be
diving into depth and that will help you
develop that expertise in Tableau which
you have already started growing and
that is a great thing because demand for
Tableau is constantly growing in the
world and it is not currently completely
met so you can meet that demand by
developing these advanced skills. But do
bear in mind that this is an advanced
course and we are discussing more
complex topics. So if you haven't yet
completed my basic course then make sure
to do that first because we will be
building on some of the knowledge that
we develop in that course. And finally
some of the lectures in this course
might seem a bit more complex than what
we're used to but that is because we are
discussing advanced topics. So make sure
to pace yourself and at the end of the
course everything that you do will be a
hundred percent worth the effort and now
let's have a quick overview of the
section of the course so you can
navigate it better.
Welcome to the inside part of the course,
amazing to have you on board and let's
quickly run through the sections that
await you ahead.
Alright, so section one is the
introduction which is this lecture
that we're having right now and then
starting from section 2, we dive straight
into the nitty-gritty and advanced
topics of Tableau. Now the first thing I
should mention is that this course has
four sections. The sections are named
section two groups and sets, section of
three advanced table calculations,
section four advanced data prep plus
analytics and Tableau and section 5
creating animations in Tableau. So those
are the four main sections, we've got the
conclusion at the end.
The main thing that I wanted to mention
is that these sections are completely
independent, so you don't have to take
them in order. If there is a pressing
need for you to for instance learn about
advanced table calculations because you
needed on a job or a project then go for
it. Go and dive straight into this
section and then take the rest of the
sections at your leisure, when you're
ready for them. It doesn't matter in
which order you take them. The sections
are completely independent and that is
because they are quite large section
some of them go up to 2 over 2 hours
long with 13 or 14 tutorials so I
completely understand that will take your
time to go through them. Therefore take
them in any order as you wish
and as maybe you have requirements to
do so and now we're just going to go
through them and I will explain what
we're studying in each of these sections.
So section two, groups and sets
it's um it's a section where we talk
about what groups are and what sets
are in Tableau and I show you how to as
you can see create static sets, dynamics
sets, combined sets. I used sets of
parameters and basically everything
about sets and also we learn everything
about sets on a real example from the
real world we talk about analyzing
startups and helping a venture
capitalist fund assess which startups
and want to invest. So a pretty pretty
cool example it's quite a quick section
so it's not that long as you can see
tutorials aren't on average they aren't
that as long as on average in the whole
of the course. Although, there is a 15
minute tutorial over here so brace
yourself for that but otherwise a very
powerful tool in your arsenal sete
definitely a worthwhile this section to
learn and to take them takeaways on
board.
Alright, so advanced table calculations.
This is one of the biggest sections of
the course. This one or the other one I'm
not sure which one is exactly the
biggest one but this one is one of the
major sections of the course, very
in-depth the tours are very long, very
some of the topics are very complex so
are and I will mention this again in the
intro.
Make sure to brace yourself these or
pace yourself probably I should say. These
topics that we discussed may seem a bit
more complex than usual but they are
definitely very powerful when you come
to the point when you will be needing
and recording them in your work and plus
it will give you that extra flexibility
and this is one of those topics that
takes you that separates a you know
somebody who knows Tableau from somebody
who is advanced in Tableau, so definitely
check out this section as well advanced
table calculations. Next section four, it
is so big. It is
in by the number of tutorials is the
biggest ones got 14 tutorials in here
and it's the biggest one because it's a
combined section. So here we discuss two
topics. We talk about advanced data
preparation and analytics in Tableau. So
in terms of analytics, you will learn
box plots, trend lines and forecasting. So
you've got a box plot, so here you've got
trend lines here and you got forecasting
and in between you will learn advanced
data preparations, so things like pivot
and splits, advanced pivots, advanced
blending so we've got advanced time
series blending here. So quite an
interesting section a very technical and
it, the take.. takeaways from here
you'll be able to apply in a different
scenarios that will help you speed up
your work in Tableau in general
especially when it comes to data
preparation and analytics will help you
do that
ad-hoc analytics side of things that you
can do in Tableau. A lot of people forget
that Tableau is not just a visualization
tool. It also has analytics capability.
Oh by the way, I forgot to mention in
section 3 we've got really really
interesting data set. We're talking about
a call terminal so how a call is
prepared to be shipped after its
celebrate by train so I that is one of
the most fascinating business challenges
I have ever created for my students so
even just for that you should check out
this section. It is pretty incredible got
some good great photos in there in this
project brief. I'm sure you will really
like it and you'll say wow
our by the end of the tutorial and in
here we've got a some statistical data
from the Australian Bureau of Statistics,  so we are
dealing with population trends and we're
dealing with different industries so
also some interesting data data, if
you are up if you're working in the
world over retail and finally if we
scroll down here we will see the section
on animations. So I've left the best for
last and this is gonna be a fun and
quick section where you will learn how
to create animations in Tableau and
also you'll see that animations are not
just a really cool feature in Tableau,
but actually allow you to visualize an
extra dimension and allow you to really
while your audience and give them more
flexibility around how they interact
with your dashboard. So this is a quick
section and in fact we will actually
build the visualization within the first
three tutorials and you will be
surprised at how quick and efficient
this functionality is in tableau and at
the end we've got the conclusion so
we've got the course overview where we
talk about these sections one more time
so you can always come back and
reference what you have learned and at
the very end we've got a special bonus
so this is my way of saying thank you to
you for taking this course so make sure
to check out that lecture. So there we go
those are the sections for this course
and one more thing to finish off i would
like to mention where to get the data
sets, this time around you need to go to
superdatascience.com/tableau-advanced
and if you scroll down
here you will see all of the data sets
for all the sections of these are the
main four sections and also you'll
notice that this time I've included this
challenges. So you've got a challenge for
every one of these sections and that is
because the sections are structured like
missions so this is your mission brief
and once you read it off you go straight
into the challenge.
It's um it's a way to combine learning
with a fun experience and I really do
hope that you have a lot of fun along
the way that is how this course is
designed. So I look forward to seeing in
the first tutorial and until then, happy
analyzing.